# 🚀 Algorithmic Strategies

## Introduction
In this practice, I will implement two key algorithmic strategies in C for solving the task assignment problem to individuals. This problem will be approached in two versions: with and without the `usadas[]` vector.

## Problem Statement
You are required to test with `n = 3`, as per the exercise solved in class (using the given benefit table), and with a larger `n = 6` using the following benefit tables:

### For `n=3`:
| TASKS | B | 1 | 2 | 3 |
|-------|---|---|---|---|
| **PEOPLE** |   |   |   |
| 1     |    | 11| 17| 8 |
| 2     |    | 9 | 7 | 6 |
| 3     |    |13| 15| 16|

### For `n=6`:
| TASKS | B | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 |
|-------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **PEOPLE** |   |   |   |   |   |   |
| 1     |    |11| 17| 8 | 16| 20| 14|   
| 2     |    |9 | 7 | 6 | 12| 15| 18|   
| 3     |    |13| 15| 16| 12| 16| 18|   
| 4     |    |21| 24| 28| 17| 26| 20|   
| 5     |    |10| 14| 12| 11| 15| 13|   
| 6     |    |12| 20| 19| 13| 22| 17|


## Part 1: Backtracking Strategy Implementation 🔄
Implement the backtracking algorithm seen in theory, both with and without the `usadas` vector. Use the pseudocode from the class exercise as a reference.

Your program should print the number of nodes generated by the algorithm in each case (those meeting the criteria).

### Deliverables
- The program that solves the problem.
- A report explaining:
  1. The meaning of the components of the `s` vector.
  2. The function that assigns a task to a person.
  3. The purpose of the `MasHermanos()` function.
  4. The objective of the `Retroceder()` function.
  5. Theoretical and practical conclusions about the complexity of the task and the number of steps when using the `usadas` vector.

### Data to be Calculated and Printed
- `n`
- Vector `usadas`
- Number of nodes visited
- Number of steps for criteria, generation, solution, `MasHermanos`, and `Retroceder`.

## Part 2: Branch and Bound Strategy Implementation 🌿✂️
The goal here is to examine the effect of pruning on the number of nodes visited in the implicit solution exploration tree.

### Specifications
- The branching strategy will be MB-LIFO.
- Test both trivial and precise estimates for bounding and compare the differences in pruning effectiveness.

### Deliverables
- The program that solves the problem.
- A report explaining:
  1. Conclusions on the effects of pruning.
  2. Necessary changes for the case of minimization (if matrix B represents costs instead of benefits).

### Data to be Calculated and Printed
Always using the `usadas` vector:
- `N` Number of nodes explored

## How to Run 🏃‍♂️
### Backtracking
First, we have to compile the program:

```
gcc -o backtring mainBacktracking.c Backtring.c
```

```
gcc -o brachAndBound mainRamificacion.c RamificacionYPoda.c
```

After this, we execute it:

```
./backtring
```

```
./brachAndBound
```

## Contributors 👥
- [Pablo Seijo]

---

Feel free to contribute to this project and suggest improvements! Happy coding! 💻😊
